Coming into this class I had little to no experience with race, gender, or even the criminal justice system and how things were operated. I have heard of the topics and I had my own opinions on the matters, but this class has changed my perspective greatly. Growing up, I always was centered into my own little bubble of white privilege. Being in a white neighborhood and going to a predominately white school shaped how I viewed many things. Some of which include being secluded and not understanding the issues within the black communities. Such as, the treatment and how one struggles to find better homes outside of the community that they grow up in. My thoughts on race and gender were little and nothing big except that they were just other people like me and everyone is the same in many ways. I had no idea about the code of the street or how the LGBTQ community is treated differently in the criminal justice system. Being in this class made me realize just how uneducated I was about simple things that go on so close to home. It also made me think to myself, if I grew up anywhere else besides Mukwonago, Wisconsin would I be different? The simple answer is yes, but I cannot change where I have grown up. 
I am a white female who always comes home to a roof over my head, food to eat, and parents who support me. Given those circumstances, I acknowledge that I am privileged. I have had little experience myself with the criminal justice system, at most my experience has been a parking ticket. Although in high school, I was around people who had drug addictions and people who rebelled. In other words, they were very familiar with the criminal justice system. As I watched them go through high school they got worse and worse each year, going in and out of juvie, getting suspended and finally in my senior year they were no longer there. Specifically, I remember being a sophomore in Foundations to Chemistry and Physics class sitting next to Sam. I knew she had a drug addiction for a long time, everyone including myself knew she didn’t want to be at school. Sam started the school year by being there everyday, but slowly she would only come once a week at most. Everytime she was in class it was obvious Sam was high on some type of drug. One day, as she was finally in class after almost a month of missing, there was a knock on our classroom door asking for Sam. After that, I never saw her back at school the rest of my two years. Rumors went around the school that she was sent to rehab and ran away or she ran away from home and no one knows where she is. No one will really know the story because she just disappeared.  I believe that by watching my peers, the criminal justice system has failed my generation as individuals. Instead of getting them the help they need, addicted teenagers get sent to juvie or just a short ten day program at a rehab center. Once they would get out the cycle started all over again and there was no end. This is a prominent issue in juvenile society today given that “teens have a lower capacity for impulse control simply due to the fact that the advanced portions of their brains are not yet fully developed” (Editorial Staff, 2022). With that, what adults in the corrections system call “punishment” does not help the kids recover and get back onto their feet. These students are the next face of the world and just giving them a slap on the wrist and sending them on their way is not going to make the future what it could possibly be.  
The LGBTQ community has become a large topic of controversy within the last decade or so. More knowledge has been brought up and talked about more often and openly than in the past. Again talking about my high school experience, people part of the community were looked down upon and were always pushed to the back of the room. The “popular” kids would tend to exclude people who were known to be part of the LGBTQ community. Needless to say, I was around a toxic and non accepting environment. Being in this class has opened my eyes to the struggles of people who are “against the norm” nowadays. They rebel because of the way they are treated, which leads to their involvement with the criminal justice system. Another issue LGBTQ kids face is the fear of how their family will react. “Out of the only seven percent of the youth who identify as LGBTQ, forty percent of them identify as homeless” (Lesley University, 2022). This statistic shows just how poorly LGBTQ children are treated and how big of an issue it still is even with it becoming more of an open topic as the days go on. 
American society has contributed to the criminal justice system in many ways. Stereotyping people and using that unfairly is one issue that not only is in the criminal justice system but in societies in general. “Processing begins with identification of a person's physical attributes that act as cues to salient category dimensions such as age, sex, and race. At this stage, the nature of feature processing diverges into two routes of information processing that operate simultaneously and largely independently” (Maddox, 2006). This is just a short description of what stereotyping can look like and many people do it unknowingly. Like in the movie, Higher Learning, the way that the white people tried to walk all over black people by calling them names. They thought that saying and calling the black people these names was acceptable. Some people think that hate crimes carry no punishment and that they can just get away with it. In reality hate crimes lead to and usually are violent and not just words. Just like any other crime, one may get arrested for hate crime as well. “A punishment given for a hate crime is a maximum of 10 years in prison” (Coble, 2022). Taking this further, religion is also an issue revolving around stereotyping. You could look at many people and not even think about what religion they are, but if one looks at someone wearing a hijab some might think, “they are a terrorist.” After 9/11 Middle Easterners and Muslims were all seen as terrorists, leading to people criminalizing anyone and everyone who looked or were Muslim.  
In order to make the criminal justice system as fair as possible many steps need to be done. Educating the individuals who work and go into the criminal justice system on the issues and ways to stop them, in hopes to prevent bias. Topics of education could include the LGBTQ community and stuggles that they face, the statistics of other races and white privilege. Informing workers and everyone for that matter would ease many people's minds, making them more likely to understand the hardships faced by the groups. Another topic of conversation that could be brought up would be educating the inmates. “Roughly two-fifths of the people entering prison do not have a high school degree or a GED” (Duwe and Henry-Nickie, 2021). This fact stated in an article that I found could be seen as a stereotype or on the other hand could be seen as an opportunity to educate inmates. This would not only help the people in the prisons but may help lower crime rates as well. 
If not for this class, I would still be in my little bubble of judgment. I cannot change the fact that I am a white female but moving forward my eyes will be more open. This allows me to be more aware of the unsettling things that used to just fly by me in everyday life. My views on race and gender were greatly changed throughout this semester, for the better. Race and gender both define individuals as a person. Criminalizing and putting others down over uncontrollable things has and may always be an issue in society today. I cannot change the world, but maybe I can make an impact somewhere. 
